---
title: "Robust beamforming design in multi-modal communication scenarios empowered by liquid neural network"
collection: talks
type: "Report"
permalink: /talks/GLNN
venue: "IMT 2030 AI tasks group"
date: 2024-03-28
location: "Dingtalk"
---

This speech, presented at the IMT-2030 (6G) AI technology task group, introduces the innovative gradient-based liquid neural network (GLNN) method, designed for robust beamforming in  multi-modal communication scenarios.

With the severe spectrum shortage in conventional bands, massive multiple-in-multiple-out (MIMO) systems in the millimeter-Wave (mmWave) bands can potentially help to fulfill the anticipated demands of mobile communication in the next era.
The need for robustness and low complexity of beamforming in mmWave communications faces challenges, especially in dynamic environments or with inaccurate channel state information (CSI). 
To tackle with these challenges, we introduce a novel Gradient-based liquid neuron network (GLNN) framework for beamforming in massive MIMO communications.

We utilize ODE-based liquid neurons for high efficiency beamforming, and ensures robustness to noisy CSI through adaptable ODE components. 
Moreover, unlike traditional deep learning-based methods that take raw channel matrices as input, GLNN feeds the gradients of spectral efficiency (SE) to the neuron network to enhance its ability of extracting high order information. 
We employed a specially designed loss function to encourage the neural network to explore further and more extensively within the optimization space.
Extensive simulation results shows that GLNN can achieve higher SE and robustness than state-of-the-art alternating optimization schemes with the time consumption by two orders of magnitude less.

[Related Paper](https://tp1000d.github.io/XWang/publication/GLNN)
